Web Development:
  Shaastra is the annual technical festival of IIT Madras, it is a completely student run ISO certified
  festival. The Shaastra website is responsible for coordinating the different events, displaying the different
  events to people who might be interested, displaying the sponsor companies' advertisements, enrolling
  people from all over India into the events and managing their payments.

  Shaastra summer camp 2016:
    It was in Shaastra 2016 summer camp when I was introduced to web deveopment. The camp was organized by
    our seniors who were Shaastra webops cores and coordinators. The camp introduced us to the fundamentals of
    web deveopment like how a website works, what is front-end and what is back-end, what is the difference
    between the two, what is a server, what is a database and how all of these things work together to make a
    website work. We were also introduced to a little bit of web dev oriented coding html, css, bootstrap,
    nodejs and MEANstack because 2016 website and all the Shaastra website after this one were based to
    MEANstack framework. Later on I applied for Shaastra webops backend coordinator for Shaastra 2017 as that
    seems more interesting to me.

  Shaastra 2017 coordinator:
    I was selected as one of the Shaastra 2017 backend coordinators. I learnt more about a website's Backend
    as now I had to work with the entire/full backend of our website and coordinate with other members of the
    team. The tasks given to me were, testing and debugging the events portal of Shaastra 2017 (a part of our
    website). So, basically as I was new I had to sit and try my best to make the portal crash or do something
    weird which it was not supposed to do and then was asked to try to fix that issue. Later on in 2017 I was
    given a project where I had to build a portal for Shaastra Solutions (which is another sub branch of Shaastra).
    As I was doing a project under a professor where I had to use Django to make a server which runs an algorithm,
    I made the Solutions Portal using Django from scratch. Shaastra usually uses generators like Yeoman to make
    their websites so building a portal from ground up taught me a lot of other things. Things that we used to take
    from granted were not there anymore and I had to do everything on my own.

  Shaastra 2018 super-coordinator:
    I enjoyed working for Shaastra so I applied for the position of super-coordinator for Shaastra 2018
    and got in. Now I had to lead a team of backend coordinators. I incorporated better security measures
    in our website, incorporated a payment portal (Insta mojo) and was responsible to make the backend more
    efficient than the previous one.[Ex. Suppose there is a team event, if an application for a team is submitted
    we need to verify for all the members that team if he/she is not participating in the same from some other team.
    So earlier we had to loop over all the members of the team then loop over all teams in the event and search if
    the person had applied from some other team. Now we have a list in the database of the person which tells what
    all events he is applying for and also what team he is applying from. So now searching verifying the thing is easier
    and faster]. I enjoyed the Shaastra webops experience very much.

Internet of Things:
  Traffic Monitoring:
    In 2017 I was involved in a project under a professor where we had to use microprocessors to monitor traffic
    in our institute. Basically a microprocessor would scan for bluetooth devices around it using its bluetooth
    module for a specified amount of time and then it would send that information to a server which was hosted on
    pythonanywhere.com. I was responsible to make the server which had to run an algorithm. The algorithm was basically
    the djikstra's algorithm and it was used to find and suggest the shortest paths to a destination to the driver.
  Flipkart Gridlock Hackathon:
    I participated in the Flipkart's Gridlock Hackathon. The problem statement was that we had to come up with an
    innovative way to tackle Bengaluru's (Bengaluru is a city in South India) traffic problem. Our idea was to
    make the traffic lights "smart" by giving them the ability to know their surroundings (junctions) and then
    they can decide the most optimal traffic light phase. :Explain arrangement:. I was responsible to get the
    django server to work on the microprocessor and wrote a scipt code which was responsible to connect the
    devices to each other using the server device's hotspot.

Data-Science:
  CNA stuff and converted to M.Tech in data science.
